---
layout: post
title:  "About"
date:   2014-03-28 15:00:00
categories: about
---

_"If you follow all your dreams, you might get lost" Neil Young_

##The Technical
I focus on developing competencies to collect, parse, and present information. To get better, I am biased towards a very limited set of tools and processes.

There are other ways and probably better ways to collect, parse, and present information. But if I explore too many alternatives, I get good at none of them. My blog has learning resources and tips that support my narrow views about systems, processes, and tools for information management. Some of these views include:

1. *Client Hardware:* MacBook Air. When I have to use Windows, I add Cygwin for access to UNIX and the open source universe. Windows is always slower and less elegant than Mac but can be useful when mining stovepipe data.

2. *Development:* My text editor is 98% Sublime and 2% vim. My shell is bash and I use git(hub) for configuration management. I process information with Ruby and put it on the web with Rails. I blog with Octopress and Markdown, debug with pry, and make things pretty with Bootstrap. I aspire to become competent with d3.js and minitest.

3. *Deployment:* I manage domains at NameCheap and deploy with Heroku.

##Lean Startup 
A founder needs [selective amnesia](http://usatoday.com/story/sports/nfl/2014/01/04/colts-chiefs-wild-card-playoffs-andrew-luck/4321311/) to handle the twists, turns, rejections, and pivots. And while I do enjoy a good roller coaster ride, the journey can take away from the things that create value in the first place. 

I prefer to focus on developing skills necesary to bootstrap my startup experiments. My goals are to learn, share, have fun, and hopefully build cool things that people find useful.
